
TASK 1 : scrape real data from MASS511 - https://mass511.com/

OVERVIEW:

What is Mass511:
	Alternative app for google.maps
	Live traffic
	It gives min 1, max 2 Route options for given two points
	Have check boxes for map features

Which Way?
	Api Key
	Selenium Webdriver 
Coding?
	Make EDA with the given data by teammate
	X, and Y coordinates are entered to origin and destination points
	Scrape the all given data ( total time, total distance, breakdown of the time and distance for each leg)
	More than 3,000 origin & destination scraped



Mass511 is the alternative live traffic map of the https://www.google.com/maps .
There are 2 ways to scrape from the site. 

A ) API key: you have to apply from the site to get an api key in order to scrape data. This way is not quick solution
because it is possible to wait for several weeks for approval of the api key.  

B ) Selenium Web Driver: it is a library of the Python . you can find more info from the following link https://www.guru99.com/selenium-python.html . Here you would need to enter coordinates and then to click the button. So 
Selenium does do this job. 

I found the following link in order to create the Python codes - https://medium.freecodecamp.org/better-web-scraping-in-python-with-selenium-beautiful-soup-and-pandas-d6390592e251 .

Before start to code you must complete these 2 below stages:
1- You have to download chrome or firefox and save in to file where jupyter notebook at.
Go and find your chrome version (I used the chrome not firefox) from https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/chromedriver/downloads and then select the convenient version and download it. Then save in your file where jupyter notebook at.
2- if it doesn't work then double click on the chrome driver and it will tell you how to identify it to your computer.

Now it is ready to scrape !

If you can hit the site by Selenium codes the next stage is scrape data by BeautifulSoup.
I scrape the 4 main columns from the site as order 'from to where' , 'time' ,'distance' and 'direction' which is breakdown of the total time and distance.
You can enter the full address or coordinates(longitude and latitude) to A and B boxes. Here we enter the coordinates.
In normally system gives 2 alternative Routes after entering the origin and destination coordinates. But sometimes 
System gives only 1 Route as output. In order to avoid breaking the loop when code runs you have to add 'try and except'
before Route 2 . If site doesn't give the second alternative then code will try and pass the next query without any 
problem. 

System allows max 144 or 149 hits at once!if you want to scrape more than this number of points so you should limit your 
loop by 149 . After scraping the data then keep it in csv file and try for the next new 149 points and so on. After you 
download as much as you need the data then go and append them in one csv file by Panda. I scrapped more than 3,000 points
of data by this way. Here you can try more than 149 hits at once see if it works. I encourage you to try for more than this 
limited number. It may works for you. But I get the following Error message when I try for more than 149 points at once : "MaxRetryError: HTTPConnectionPool(host='127.0.0.1', port=50484): Max retries exceeded with url: /session/a570dcb07d487bc27b42748a3a1f08e1/timeouts/implicit_wait (Caused by NewConnectionError('<urllib3.connection.HTTPConnection object at 0x12034f470>: Failed to establish a new connection: [Errno 61] Connection refused',))"


TASK 2: scrape real data from NAVBUG - https://www.navbug.com/massachusetts/medford_traffic.htm

OVERVIEW:

What is Navbug :
	An alternative site for Mass511 or twitter 
	Shows live traffic map
	No choice for origin & destination
	Live news about the traffic
	Don’t give route options but keywords in the news are helpful

Coding:
	Scrape the news titles , subtitles and stories
	Scrape related roads
	Scrape the key words e.g., ‘Road Close’ , ‘Construction’ in order to destroy the mentioned road in the Model
	263 rows scraped


